The islands of Micronesia
are tiny specks in the Pacific Ocean.
But these beautiful islands are home
to some 1,400 worshippers of Jehovah.
Formerly called the Guam branch,
the Micronesia branch oversees the work
in nine lands in addition to Guam.
There are currently 64 Bethel family members
and full-time commuters,
but only 25 are at the branch office.
The rest have the privilege
of working
in six remote translation offices.
A significant milestone
was recently reached in Micronesia.
The Kingdom Hall construction program
that began in 2008
will be complete this month.
Among the projects completed
were 13 Kingdom Halls,
6 remote translation offices,
and 4 missionary homes.
Some of these projects
were new construction,
whereas others were renovations.
Many experiences showed
Jehovah’s blessing on these projects,
some of which were shared
in this month’s JW Broadcasting program.
Despite very poor conditions
on many of these islands,
there has been
a heartwarming response
to the May 2015 JW Broadcast
concerning our privilege
to support Kingdom interests
through our donations.
Following the program,
one couple of humble means
decided to set aside 20 U.S. dollars
each month as a donation.
Just last month, however,
their bills exceeded their income
by some 80 dollars.
Not knowing how they were going
to come up with the extra money,
they thought about using the 20 dollars
to help pay for the expenses.
In the end, though,
they decided it was more important
to donate the funds,
as they had resolved,
and look for another way
to cover the deficit.
Well, shortly after making the donation,
they both were surprised to learn
that they had been selected
as employees of the month
for their good work.
The reward?
A cash gift of 50 dollars each.
The couple gives all the praise
to Jehovah for the positive outcome.
In 2014, our branch received training
to do audio/video recording
in the remote translation offices.
As a result, the publishers
have enjoyed using
more videos in the ministry.
One missionary brother
had invited
the Chuukese couple
he was studying with
to the meeting many times,
but they had only attended
once in the past year and a half.
When the video
What Happens at a Kingdom Hall?
became available in their language,
the brother played the video for them.
The couple was impressed
and commented
that the Kingdom Hall was
very different from their church.
They attended
the very next meeting,
which happened
to be the Memorial.
Experiencing for themselves
what they saw in the video,
they continued
attending meetings.
Last year, the branch office
encouraged congregations
to consider working
unassigned territory.
In Micronesia,
these are often
isolated atolls
located hundreds of miles
from the nearest congregation.
One group sailed to the Aur Atoll
in the Marshall Islands.
On the little atoll island
of Tobal,
they preached
and invited the residents
to attend a public meeting
the very next day.
To their surprise,
42 residents attended,
which is about 25 percent
of the islands’ population.
They were intrigued
by the talk entitled
“How Does God View the Dead?”
The subject was timely because
a father of three children
had died in an accident,
and the local minister
said it was God’s will.
Following the talk, about 20 people
stayed to ask questions
—some for up to two hours.
Altogether, the group
of five publishers
placed 1,000 pieces of literature
and started many Bible studies
in this atoll.
Needless to say,
this group is looking forward
to making another trip
to this receptive territory.
At Isaiah 42:12,
it was foretold
that Jehovah’s people
would “declare
his praise in the islands.”
We are happy that this prophecy
is being fulfilled
in the islands of Micronesia.
And it is a pleasure
to bring to you all
the love and greetings
from these beautiful people.